Have you seen the wave of open source updates coming out of Posit lately?
Here are the updates from the last month.
GGSQL.
This brings the grammar graphics directly to SQL.
You can now define data visualizations inside your SQL queries
without switching to R or Python.
Quarto2, a complete rewrite of Quarto and Rust.
It's faster and introduces native support for collaborative editing.
Raghilda, a new Python package for building RAG with better transparency
and default, observability in Shiny for Python and Point Blank, which now
include built-in OpenTelemetry support for better production monitoring.
TidyModels, updates across the core stack along with new AI agent skills
and updated cheat sheets.
Mori, a new R package for shared memory.
It allows different processes to access the same data without copying it.
TabPFN, an R interface for TabPFN, allowing you to use that foundation
model for tabular data predictions.
Nanoparquet.
This package for Parquet files now supports list columns for nested data.
Torch.
The R ecosystem for Torch has expanded with more support for GPU
management and computer vision.
Roxygen2, new support for the S7 object system and improved
documentation for R6.
GreatDocs, a new library for Python designed specifically to make package
documentation more readable and easier for LLMs to parse.
We round up these updates in the Glimpse newsletter every month.
Which one are you going to try first?
Let us know in the comments.